# Issue 3: 1/July/2005

Newsletter back issues can be accessed at: http://www.astralprojectiontruth.com/nbi.htm

Before I get into the guts of it this month, there has been a
little misunderstanding regarding the Virtual Classroom service so
I am going to mention about that first.

I've had a few people unfortunately under the impression that it
was a live broadcast type of thing over the Internet, taking place
between specific hours of the day, and if a person were outside of
my European time zone then it would be impossible for them to
access. I'm sorry for any misunderstanding and I have added more
information in the details section of my website that can be
accessed here: http://www.astralprojectiontruth.com/vcsub.htm

There are NO specific hours of actual contact.

Virtual Classroom subscribers are welcome to contact me at ANY
time.

But what I was trying to get across is the fact that if you live,
for example, in the USA then there will be natural delays caused by
the difference in time zones. For example, if someone had a fairly
straightforward question that came through to me at, say, 2 o'clock
in the afternoon then chances are they would get a reply within a
couple of hours. But if someone from the USA emailed me at 2pm
their time then I would be answering their email normally the
following day due to time-zone variations. But I cannot see that
being a particular barrier, just a minor hassle at times, which I
was bringing people's attention to.

Okay, so on with the newsletter...

People have been asking about the 4 Primary Areas in consciousness,
how they relate to the Focus states presented by Monroe, and why
Monroe didn't realise this, etc. Regarding this latter question, I
have no idea why Monroe did not finally come to conclude as I have.
A number of elements of his work indicate to me that he could well
have done had he lived to explore another 10 or 15 years.

I came to these conclusions after having based all my earlier work
on Monroe. So in that sense Monroe gave me a big head start. Monroe
does talk about having experiences he simply could not put into
words. In some parts I would gauge he was touching on Focus 4 of
consciousness, but he found these kinds of experiences very
difficult to quantify or put a label on.

The Wider Reality becomes like that the "further out" you go. Many
times some kind of phenomena or event will come into your objective
awareness and you simply cannot explain it. In a sense, by my
introducing the Focus 4 concept, I am attempting to explain the
previously unexplainable.

As I was talking about in the previous newsletter, consciousness is
apportioned into 4 Primary Areas that are NOT places, but they are
Primary Focuses of attention. Monroe thought of consciousness as
one long continuum, and to a certain degree that is how I too
explain it, as I agree with him. However, what he unfortunately did
was set in mind this process of thinking that his focus states are
"levels" and each number is a level "higher" than the previous
number. Thus off you go, ad infinitum, to focus number 1-followed
by however many trillion zeros.

Problem with all that is there are NO LEVELS in consciousness.

Here are the main Monroe focus states: C1, F3, F10, F12, F15, F21,
F22, F23, F24, F25, F26 and F27. There later came an F34/35 but I
want to put that aside and talk about it another time as it's not
relevant to this discussion.

In the Monroe model, focus state C1 is what I term the "front line
physical" or "awake and alert" in the physical, as Monroe would
say. When you phase shift away from C1 you reach focus 3, which is
quite a pleasant kind of relaxed meditative or contemplative state.
I never do any kind of "meditation" and I'm not sure what it is
exactly as it tends to have all manner of mystical or new-age kinds
of belief constructs attached, which are just not my thing. But the
thought has often crossed my mind that what people are calling
meditation could well be the Monroe focus 3 state.

Things really start kicking off at focus 10 or the "Ten State" as
Monroe calls it. I have a little theory that would suggest that
where people are having difficulties in their progression
(typically they believe they are at focus 10 and they are stuck)
they are, in fact, at focus 3. Because in my interactions with
people, I have found that what people are typically calling focus
10 is actually focus 3. Anyhow, from a true focus 10 you tend to
naturally progress to focus 12. Problems typically begin to arise
here because things start livening up a tad. But if you can stay
calm and think your way through in particular ways then you will
end up at focus 21. Keep going and you reach focus 22, 23, 24, 25,
26 and 27.

The big difficulty with this is people get to thinking you are
progressing to "higher and higher" places. And this then begins to
sound very much like the mystics idea of astral planes Many times I
have had people come to me claiming there is no difference really
between Monroe and the traditional models of the mystics and their
astral planes idea. They make the primary mistake of thinking the
Monroe focus states are just astral planes only with different
labels. This is way off the mark for many reasons. I shall not be
going into much of that here because my purpose, in this edition of
the newsletter, is to tell you more about the Monroe states in
consciousness and how they compare to my Phasing Model.

But I will say, as you may have heard me mention before, Monroe was
the very first person (to my knowledge) who realised these
mysterious states of consciousness are not places, but they are
focuses of attention. Hence the term "focus" as in focus 10, focus
12, etc. You are not "travelling" to a "higher" place. All that is
happening is, as you widen or broaden your awareness, the more of
your reality you can objectively encompass. Think of the physical
as like looking through a very narrow angle lens. In this case you
have a very limited range of events you can focus your attention
on. Say I'm pointing it at a landscape. Right, I can see a tree, a
haystack, a few wild flowers growing in some grass. So these events
are all I can focus point my attention at.

So my Primary Focus would be my overall range of view, and my focus
of attention would be whatever event I happened to be concentrating
on, within that overall range of view.

Now imagine I can turn a lever and gradually widen the angle of the
lens. Ah, there are some sheep, it's a field full of sheep and that
single tree is actually a line of trees lining the edge of the
field. Now I can focus my attention on all manner of things as my
awareness has been widened. I haven't actually "travelled"
anywhere. I have simply widened my awareness or detuned my focus.
In doing so I can now point my attention at a greater number, or
point my attention on a wider selection of events. In other words,
I introduce other areas into my field of view.

The analogy is not that brilliant, admittedly, but what I am trying
to get across is this idea of widening your awareness rather than
people keep thinking they are "travelling" to a "place" on another
"level".

People use the term "focus level" and I know I've used it in the
past merely in a manner of speaking. But I now specifically avoid
doing it and I suggest you do also. Because it just seems there is
this almost magnetic tendency to quickly gravitate one step further
in thinking and begin believing you are progressing to higher
places. I have even had people tell me they fear they will never
get their "energy high enough" to get to focus 27.

Problem is, to the mystics and the religious types, as humans, we
are "low" and in the "other places", everything is "higher". So
depending upon how these people are trying to manipulate your
thinking, will depend on how they try to get you to "purify"
yourself. In the old days, it was to get the mass of people
subservient to the ruling elite, and to a degree it still is in
some societies. With the more modern-day mystical guru types, it's
usually to get your money.

Somehow, people have this idea in mind that to shift your focus of
attention into another area in consciousness you need some
mysterious kind of "energy". From what I can gauge, this appears to
be a more modern-day mystical notion. In typical mystical fashion
we all are currently "low" and, surprise surprise, the mystics have
all the answers about how we can get this mysterious energy "high"
in order to proceed to this other world they call astral-planes.

I suppose the idea of "energy" comes from the effects you get when
concentrating upon various energy centres. It's a little tricky but
if you practice attuning your mental awareness to any particular
energy centre (there are several main ones mystics typically call
Chakras). Note: I simply detest the word Chakra. Apart from the
fact that it sounds like some brand of pretzel there are just SO
many mystical belief constructs surrounding this word it is unreal.
And if you flip through the websites everyone just parrots the
other.

Anyhow, if you attune your mental awareness to these energy centres
you can "ignite" them, as I call it. Doing this gives you a number
of weird and whacky sensations like a kind of electricity flowing
your the body. But this can come on with varying degrees of effect.
These feelings can range from very mild tingling sensations in
localised areas to the MAJOR head-on rush of having a complete
turn-on of all the main centres. When this happens you feel this
humongous blast of sensation that starts building around the base
of your spine and it travels up through your body and rips open
your head. Or at least that is what it feels like.

I think the mystics call this some kind of Kundalini effect. I'm
not exactly sure why but they wrap it up with all kinds of things
to do with snakes and stuff.

Having felt the sensations of this a number of times I can vaguely
see where they are coming from. I saw the description once,
"Serpent of Fire". Yes, I can kinda see that, how poetic. When I
think of that description strictly in a figurative sense I agree it
does very much feel like there is a localised ball of intenseness
that begins at the base and starts emanating a feeling of heat, an
intense energy. I suppose you could call it a fire, a sort of very
intense, localised internal fire. After all, when you analyse an
explosion it is essentially an extremely fast fire emanating from a
core. As this "fire" builds and expands it starts snaking its way
upwards and blasts open the top of your head.

Like I say, how poetic to call it a Serpent of Fire. But the
problem in doing this is it merely adds to the mystique of it all.
Plus, it's only a short hop from the serpent to the devil and it
all goes downhill from then on, with people professing of the
dangers and such like. But there is no actual danger. Simply
imagine the sheer head-on rush of going on the world's biggest
roller coaster, only you don't actually go anywhere.

I suppose that's the freaky thing about it.

With the roller coaster there is all manner of anticipation and
stuff beforehand. You can see it and you know it as you buy your
ticket. But I think nothing can prepare you for the effects of a
similar kind of head-on rush that takes place while you are simply
lying comfortably, not going anywhere at all and then BLAMMO! It
hits you, wow. For a while you simply cannot move because of the
sheer intensity of what has just happened. When it first happened
to me I was giggling for several days as it was such a mind-blowing
rush.

To the mystics nothing can be too simple as their very nature is to
mystify and enthral people. Lure them into a mystical wonderland
and all that kind of stuff. Once you get a person believing in all
the mystical tosh, all you need do is get them projecting within
"the astral" which as we know is largely Focus 2 of consciousness
(your own individual areas in consciousness) then a person will
begin to objectively view the very representations of those belief
constructs that you have plied them with. So then the person
becomes hooked on you and they become a source of money flow. Well,
that's the theory and it works well in practice from what I can see.

The whole point in me telling you this is I want you to please
start casting out all the ideas of "levels". Doing this just gets
in the way and can be a big barrier to a person's progress. Plus,
I've had a few mystics write to me complaining that, "Oh if only I
knew what energy-work was then I wouldn't knock it". I'm not saying
I don't know what it is. I know what it is I just don't do any of
it. Not specifically I mean. I have said a number of times on the
Astral Pulse forum that I do it now and again for my amusement, as
I enjoy the weird and whacky sensations it brings. But none of this
has to do with actual projection, or shifting your focus of
attention into another area or areas of your consciousness
continuum.

I tell you, I have lost count of the number of people who have
written to me confused because they got "vibrations" yet they
couldn't project.

Typically they ignite the energy centre in the region of the chest.
I know because one of the most prominent symptoms of this is you
get a feeling like your physical heart is racing, beating at a
zillion beats a minute, that people always mention. It's not
literally beating that fast, but that's what it feels like, and you
get vibrations as well. With me I also get a sensation like my
physical body has been expanded to about 4 times the size and it
feels as if I am made of foam rubber. It's weird, it's whacky, it's
wonderful... but it 'aint projection!

The person I told you about a little way above who thought they'd
never reach Focus 27, as they'd never get their "energy high
enough" is by no means an isolated example. Many people have asked
me questions that have been along similar lines.

With the Monroe model, I have seen this levels idea pollute a
person's thinking to the extent where they get to believe the
"lower levels" as they see them, for example, let's take focus 3 of
the Monroe model, are not worthy of any real kind of attention. In
other words, they get to thinking this level is just too "low" to
bother with. They want to reach the "higher" levels... as they think
of them as being more appealing to their ego.

If someone were to ask me, "Frank, what is the most important state
for a beginner to achieve?" I would say focus 10. Because I always
say that things really begin to kick off from the focus 10 state.
BUT: in saying that, the most important state to achieving focus 10
is undoubtedly focus 3. I can reach the focus 3 state quite easily.
However, I do come across many people who THINK they are at focus
10 but they are not. They are at an early focus 3 state. Typically,
a person will write to me saying they reached focus 10 and they are
stuck. When we analyse it they were in a preliminary focus 3 state.
With focus 10 you feel a definite kind of shift to your inner
awareness. Whereas focus 3 is merely a deeply introspective state.
As I said towards the top of the page, focus 3 is what I think
people who follow the more traditional methods are calling
meditation. Because when I compare it to the descriptions of
meditation I have read about on the Internet then the two states
appear (to me) to be rather similar.

I have also come across people who think they have made a shift to
focus 21 and actually they made the shift to focus 10. Now and
again people write to me confused because they think they reached
the 3D-Blackness stage at focus 21 yet they can't perceive any 3D
Blackness, yet they felt a definite shift. When I analysed it for
them, they realised they made the shift to focus 10.

So how does all this compare to my own model?

Firstly, it doesn't matter which model you choose. One model kinda
flows into the other. For complete beginners, or for people who
tried all kinds of mystical, more traditional style "out of body"
techniques, I tend to recommend the Monroe model focus states as a
guide, coupled with my Noticing exercise. This is designed to take
a person to the Monroe focus 3 state. At focus 3, your Primary
Focus, or your primary area of focus in your consciousness
continuum is Primary Focus 1 (PF1) the physical. But your focus of
attention has become withdrawn from the "front line physical" as I
call it. So you become introspective.

One of the main characteristics of focus 3, for me, is my breathing
becomes quiet so I'm not aware of it. My body breathes totally
silently and I have next to no input from my physical senses. In
the preliminary stages, I am aware of the birds singing outside,
for example, but I am not focused on them. All sounds become in the
periphery of my awareness as I turn my focus of attention inwards.
After about 10 minutes I sink deeper to the stage where I am merely
looking within and noticing how my attention has turned inwards.
Focus 3 is a very neutral, quiet, passive and introspective state
that I use all the time, for example, when I am searching for
inspiration on something. Usually when I am searching for a way of
explaining something and nothing pops into mind, I will take 20
minutes or so, lay back and enter the focus 3 state and there will
be my answer. Focus 3 is the state (from my communications with
people having problems following the Monroe model) I would gauge
many tend to confuse with focus 10.

My model of consciousness currently sets out only the Primary Areas
within our Wider Reality. In order words, my model is simply
designed to present you with a "map" of the Wider Reality. It
doesn't actually list all the more individual focuses of attention
within that reality. This is what the Monroe model attempts to do.
Unfortunately, it breaks down "beyond" focus 27 for various reasons
which are quite complex to explain. And this led me to the
discovery of what I call Focus 4 and Focus 2 of consciousness.

The two models do correlate to a high degree, as you would expect.

Phasing Model Primary Focus 1:
Area of physical common consensus reality.

This area incorporates Monroe's C1, which is what I call the "front
line physical" or as Monroe would say, "awake and alert" within the
physical. Point your attention inwards and you reach focus 3 and on
the very "edge" of the physical is focus 10 leaning towards focus
12.

Although Monroe did not specify a focus 11 (well, not to my
knowledge anyway) in my mind I always think of the actual "finish"
of the physical as being halfway between focus 10 and focus 12 (all
in a manner of speaking, of course). But please realise that there
are no actual barriers or borders, there are only transitions
between states and they are not absolutely distinct.

Phasing Model Primary Focus 2:
Area of individual consensus reality.

This area incorporates Monroe's focuses 12, 15, 21 and 22. At focus
21/22 you are on the very "edge" of your own individual area of
mind.

Phasing Model Primary Focus 3:
Area of non-physical common consensus reality.

Incorporates Monroe's focuses 23, 24, 25, 26 and 27. This area of
consciousness is also termed the Transition Area.

Phasing Model Primary Focus 4: Incorporates Monroe's focuses 34 and
35 of a fashion, but only of a fashion! There is in reality no
direct correlation and I hesitate to make a comparison without an
extensive explanation.

In short, I make mention of it here to present a degree of
completeness at the risk of causing the misunderstanding that Focus
4 equals focuses 34 and 35 of the Monroe model... because they DON'T.
It's just that there are some vague similarities that Monroe was
touching on in his later work and I'd like to give him credit for
that.

Now I've given you an overview, in next fortnight's newsletter I'm
going to explain more about the 2 sets of numbers, what they mean,
and why I felt I needed to develop my own model of consciousness.
So more on that next time.

There have been a number of interesting posts on the Phasing side
of things the past couple of weeks and I present a little digest of
the ones I think are interesting for one reason or another, as
follows:

## Questions and Answers

### Question 1

> 1) The notion of various experiential personalities sort of
> radiating through the FoC universe without regard for linear time
> is intriguing. But, why does it seem that most life regression does
> come through in a linear way? In other words, why don't regressions
> typically lead to observing personalities that are living right
> now, from the FoC1 perspective?
>
> 2) I continue to be somewhat perplexed by this notion of 'no time'.
> It appears to me that linear time is a requirement for activities
> like learning, growing, experiencing individuality, etc. This also
> goes to a rationale for reincarnation regularly floated - our FoC4
> awareness (or higher self, God, whatever the individual favorite
> model calls for) expresses human incarnations in order to get
> experience and learn. But if this 'root' awareness is essentially
> time-free, then learning ("change") is not an option. Again, change
> implies 'then' and 'now', which necessitates some kind of passage
> of time. Not necessarily the same way that we have it here, but
> some kind of differentiation.

These are excellent questions that I must have overlooked on the
other thread you mention.

I freely admit that I (for one) do not have the full answers. I
will not get them until I can take in the full picture of Focus 4
of consciousness. I am not even sure whether it is actually
possible for a physically focused individual to take in that full
picture. Focus 2 and Focus 3 are easy by comparison, as they are so
"earth like" or "human like" and people have usually just made
something up for the rest. In the olden days they called it "god"
in significance of all they couldn't explain. But technology moves
on, our understanding widens, and this topic is no different.

Listening to some of the mystics anyone would be forgiven for
thinking we were still in the Dark Ages. Dunking witches, burning
people at the stake and wearing garlic necklaces to ward off
demons. But today we are attempting to broaden our understanding
and pave the way for the new paradigm. So here we are calling it
Focus 4 of consciousness. An area in consciousness that we can now
learn to experience for ourselves (with a little effort in the
right direction, of course).

Now, anything involving Focus 4 of consciousness is completely mind
blowing, and I do not say this lightly. It is an area I have not
been able to "explore" as fully as I would like. It is my current
challenge, you could say.

The BIG difficulty with Focus 4 is that it's an area of fully
subjective reality. There is no notion of Time, so in turn there is
no notion of Space either. Focus 4 occupies no Space at all and yet
it encompasses the other areas, namely, Focus 1, 2 and 3. So our
whole physical universe (and all the other universes besides, but
let's put them aside for a moment) is encompassed by Focus 4. Yet
"outside" of Focus 4 there is nothing because Focus 4 encompasses
all that is within our system. Focus 4 occupies no space, yet it
encompasses our whole physical universe. Okay, so that's the first
hurdle. Problem is, to us, if something occupies no space then it
cannot possibly exist. Reason being we are so attached to "things".

Second hurdle: to understand Focus 4 it is necessary to take on
board an understanding of infinity. This latter aspect is perhaps
the most mind-blowing of all. Because, in infinity, everything
happens an infinite number of times. This means everything that has
or will come about, has already happened.

From our somewhat limited linear-time perspective, we may consider
a life began, it ended, and it began again. But from the
perspective of Focus 4, nothing has begun and nothing has ended.
All simply IS. The whole notion of beginning and end is a physical
construct. From this restricted, highly limited viewpoint, people
make far-reaching assumptions about the Wider Reality. Thus,
constructs such as "reincarnation" come about. But when you
actually look at the FACTS of the matter. When you actually step
within Focus 4 and experience it for yourself, all begins falling
into place. Well, that is what is steadily happening to me and I
cannot be the only person in the world today who has stepped into
Focus 4 of consciousness. I realise this kind of thing is quite
rare and, hopefully, it will start to become more common as people
begin duplicating my work.

Most "life regression" if you wish to call it that (I personally
don't mind as I can see what you mean) comes through in the way it
does, simply because people present themselves with the
opportunities to notice what they choose to address. In that sense,
people develop a tastefulness for certain aspects that resonate
amongst us. We feel it "makes sense" so we believe it. But this
phenomenon can readily occur entirely independently of the facts of
the matter in hand; as it does in this case in the light of my
hands-on experience.

When we project within subjective reality, each of us typically
places ourselves in the position or anticipation of facing objects.
But when you enter Focus 4, you cast off all notions of "things"
and begin merging with the underlying subjective energy. That same
energy, down the line, as it were, will ultimately split off here
and there (again all in a manner of speaking) and create a "thing".
That thing could be a soccer ball, a human being, a house, a plant,
a giraffe, or whatever.

Now, in merging with energy, I do not mean you are merging into a
vast pool of nothingness. On the contrary. Typically you are
merging with a specific *action* of energy. I suppose you
could say, in a very broad sense (and only in a very broad sense)
you are merging with a "thing" but a thing in terms of its
conceptualisation, or it's source in other words. And that source
of all that is within our system is Focus 4 of consciousness.

So, ultimately, all "things" can be traced to an action in energy,
the ultimate source of which is Focus 4. So you could say that
Focus 4 is the area of the action of the thought before it is
created. But again, only in a manner of speaking because, from the
Focus 4 standpoint, there is no before. All simply is. The concept
of "before" comes into it as the action is engaged further "down
the line" as it were... and that is where the primary mistake is made
regarding the notion of reincarnation and past-lives.

All our sense of objectivity revolves around a linear time
framework. To the extent where it is, currently, virtually
impossible for a person to "step out" of this mode of thought.

It is FAR EASIER to believe in the false notion of reincarnation,
and so it becomes! (Better the devil you know, I suppose.) Myself,
I am currently finding that disassociating myself from the notion
of linear time is next to impossible and takes tremendous mental
effort. Okay, maybe I'm just a bit thick and other people would get
it more quickly. Either way, the pursuit of this type of experience
is not to be sneezed at.

Naturally I am hoping that, at some future stage, a clear set of
guidelines can be presented that would make it easier for people to
encompass and understand the Focus 4 experience.

Yours,\
Frank

### Question 2

> see what you say Frank. Its all about focus, but i still have some
> questions:
>
> 1) In a a very straight view, what do you mean its that people
> reeicarnate. Reeicarnate its just a word for "changing focus
> level". So, when i spoke about the childs that could remember their
> past live stheir were just remembering other levels of focus tha
> they had? Is that it. In very simple words we must say that they
> reeincarneted...can we say that (again, i am speaking in a very
> simplistic view)?
>
> 2) If we are just focus, we are always something that build itself
> in such a way that may seperate itself from the world. A focus can
> say or think "i am, you are", thus creating a seperation. This is
> the way we have to create ego. But a focus its always a focus. When
> we reach nirvana ego ceases to exist. What happens to focus when
> you reach nirvana (something about i can only theorize)? Do you
> stop being a focus or still being one, just observing and living
> the world in a diffeent way?
>
> 3) It seems that your focus levels are different from Monroe
> levels. I searched on the faqs about that and i found nothing about
> the levels that you ise...only the typicals levels that goes about
> level 30 (level 1, level 2..that sounds like dungeons and dragons
> game or RPG Pc games to me, lol). Where can i get info about the
> levels you speak? And information about how to reach such states?

Reincarnation is a religious/mystical belief construct and has
nothing to do with focuses, "levels" or otherwise. I have said
repeatedly that the focuses I present are NOT levels or places they
are focuses of attention. There is a difference between a focus of
attention and an individual focus personality.

A focus personality is a person who engages particular focuses of
attention within their available consciousness continuum, and is an
individual focus of their Primary Essence. But they are NOT the
ONLY focus of their Primary Essence. We each have many, many
individual focuses of our Primary Essence resident within many,
many other physical-like dimensions including this one. Many of us
will have a small number of either "parallel focuses" or "near
focuses" resident within this dimension of reality. This is only
normal.

In a very simplistic view, looking at it from the point of view of
thinking within linear time constraints, I can see how the notion
of "reincarnation" could have come about. But that is just mystics
and other religious types making the same old mistakes of the past.
To understand the reality of this issue entails a complete
understanding of the functioning of what are known as
Trans-Dimensional areas in consciousness. As I have said a number
of times, I cannot yet provide a full explanation of the workings
of these as the understanding of these areas is darned tricky and
it is a subject I have been working on only for about a year. It's
a Focus 4 thing and it would appear that anything to do with Focus
4 stretches the ability of people to explain in mere words. Little
wonder Monroe left it alone.

I am hoping to provide some computer graphic simulations within a
year or two that will explain things better than mere words. Well,
this depends on other things falling into place. Last week the
Frank Kepple Foundation was set up, but if no one subscribes to my
Virtual Classroom and no one were to buy my book, then I'm gonna be
stumped as I am not a wealthy person. I live a very frugal life and
I am hoping to plough back the lion's share of any profits into
further research for the benefit of all of us. In a few years time
I am hoping that the answers to these basic questions will be known
to a core group of us.

Essentially, you are a focus personality adopting particular
focuses of attention. You never "cease to exist". There is NO TIME
within subjective reality. As such, there can be NO beginning or
end. I keep trying to stress this but people are SO transfixed with
the idea of linear time they just cannot seem to step out of it in
their thinking. As regards Monroe and the translation of respective
focus states between my model of consciousness and his, I have
posted on this a number of times but it is a subject I will be
covering in the next edition of the newsletter due out at the end
of this current month.

Yours,\
Frank

### Question3

> Frank, in your opinion what happens to us when we die? what happens
> to our soul or conscience?

I can do better than give my opinion, I can tell you exactly what
happens as I've been to these places and met people who have done
it. And this is why the whole thrust of my work now is to get
people focusing within Focus 3 of consciousness so they can
discover all this for themselves. It's no use messing about in the
real-time zone, it's no use playing around doing "energy work"
these are nothing but parlour tricks. If you want to learn the real
truth about life, you need to get projecting within Focus 3 of
consciousness.

Or in Monroe's terms Focuses 23 to 27 inclusive. This is why
Monroe's work was streets ahead of the mystics. If you notice, his
model virtually bypasses Focus 2 of consciousness. This is the area
where most mystics revel in. This is where people have all their
weird and whacky "astral projection" style experiences. In my
model, I have actually brought Focus 2 of consciousness back into
the general scheme of things, and introduced Focus 4. This latter
area Monroe was touching on but could never quite get his head
around it.

I have introduced Focus 2 because I believe the students of this
art today will have the wherewithal, the sense of maturity, to
realise the true nature of the place. As such, they will not become
wrapped up in their own belief constructs to the extent where they
become walking, talking self-fulfilling prophecies like the mystics
and their followers of old. This is great, because Focus 2 is a
handy springboard to the other areas. Plus, you can learn to
manipulate your chances of success within the physical from within
Focus 2 of consciousness, as we are a source/manifest reality
system and Focus 2 is our source in that respect.

The notion of "soul" is a mystical and or belief construct that has
come about because these people are forever fixated with "things".
They objectify everything and turn it into a "thing". They talk
about "separation" and "rejoining" for example, yet there is NO
separation in consciousness! They talk about us being "part of a
whole" yet we ARE the whole already! Ultimately, what befalls these
people is they are completely blinded by BODY FIXATION and, as I
have said repeatedly on this forum, a body is merely an objective
representation of the accumulation of a particular set of
expectations regarding the enactment of certain types of actions
within particular areas of consciousness. It holds no other purpose!

We DO NOT die. We actually shed our physical bodies as a tree sheds
its leaves.

I've said before a number of times that what we objectively view as
death is the action of a person shifting their Primary Focus [of
attention] from Focus 1 to Focus 3 of consciousness. There is NO
death! We are NOT our physical bodies! Our body is merely a
biological machine that contains various senses, motor capabilities
and communications facilities that allow us to create the
experience of being physically oriented. We point our focus of
attention at it and we can experience wherever the body happens to
be.

Due to the nature of the way the physical body is constructed, we
**must** keep a subjective energetic connection with the body at all
times. If we withdraw this energetic connection then the physical
body **will** cease to function within about 20 minutes to an hour.
Because of this necessity, there is a particularly strong
attraction between the physical body and ourselves. More so, for
example, between yourself and an "etheric body" you might happen to
create while projecting within the "real-time zone".

Generally, when an individual focus personality wishes to
experience a particular area of consciousness they create a "bodily
vehicle" that is tailored for use within that particular area. When
you focus within the real-time zone, you typically create what
mystics call an "etheric-body". I agree but it is not strictly
necessary as they always try to make out, and even go so far as to
create weird and whacky "silver chord". I mean, as an aside, why
silver? I once created a really nice thick translucent gold one
with a red lining. It was gorgeous and dead sexy. Silver is BORING
in my opinion. These mystics just have NO imagination! I reckon
this comes about from them following all the deeply boring, staid
and stale teachings from the times when we used to dunk witches and
burn people at the stake.

Anyhow, for complete involvement within the RTZ you can create an
"etheric body". When you refocus within the physical your etheric
body then "dies" it dissipates, it's no longer required, and the
experience is over, finished, etheric-body gone. Next time you want
to experience the RTZ you simply create another one, experience
what you want to experience and, when you have finished with the
body you created it dissipates (dies) and so on and so forth, ad
infinitum.

The physical is NO different. Only the cycle of creation and
dissipation is different in its effect because you are involving
the act of creation and dissipation on a much wider scale of
events. But the underlying principle is the same. You want a
physical experience then you create a body with which to do it. You
do not have to, but for complete involvement then you would want
to, which we do. When the time comes to cease your involvement, you
withdraw your focus and allow the physical body to dissipate. As
you do so, you switch your focus of attention from Focus 1 to Focus
3 of consciousness and get on with your life there. You do not
change at all. The you of you, as I call it, remains the same.

The only problem or spoke-in-the-works of this natural transition
has been placed by religions and mystics who attempt to control
people within the physical.

With religion, in the olden days, it was working hand in hand with
the ruling hierarchy to achieve mass subservience amongst the
general populace. Today it usually all boils down to money. Either
in the pockets of the mystics and their hangers on, or religions
like the Catholic Church funding places like the Vatican State, one
of the richest places in the world.

Religions and mystics typically pitch themselves as an aid to the
whole process, a boon that you can buy into while physical. Yet,
anyone actually viewing the complete MESS their tacky beliefs have
created within the lower branches of Focus 3 of consciousness will
instantly see them as a barrier, not an aid. They are nothing but
Psychic Frauds, in my personal opinion and I long for the day that
people will start to see that.

Yours,\
Frank

### Question 4

> I understand there is no wrong interpertation. what I seem to be
> having difficulty is keeping my body from interupting any progress
> I may have. Usually it is my eyes wanting to see things either in
> my imagination or F2 or something like that that keeps me grounded
> in F1... where as I am aiming for a pure F2 experience.

In the early days the moment I'd see an image in mind, my physical
eyes would suddenly "wake up" and try to snatch a glance at
whatever it was. Of course, that would zap me right out of the
state I'd just spent 30-40 minutes developing. I've said before
that often I'd feel like gouging my eyes out in frustration. :)

A key to all of this is getting the physical eyes to relax and
soften. So you are not actually looking out of them anymore. When
you first close your eyes, you'll still be looking out of them. So
you need to let them relax so they just hold still in whatever
position they feel comfortable. Mine tend to drift upwards and
there is a point of rest that they naturally go to that is the same
each time.

This relaxing of the eyes, coupled with the relaxation of the
physical body is what allows the focus of attention to move away
from the eyes so you can change your mental focus of attention into
your mind. The physical is our Primary Focus so you need to try to
seduce that focus of attention away from the physical, as I was
talking about in a couple of posts over the past week. Once you
break the connection to the physical, you are free to look into
your mind. As I say, that is when the lights come on, in a manner
of speaking, and all kinds of weird and wonderful imagery comes
about at the beginning of Focus 2. If you wish, you can you pass
through this stage and reach Fz, which is your gateway to Focus 3.
Fz is Focus 21 of the Monroe model and Focus 3 encompasses Monroe
Focus states F23 to F27 inclusive.

Yours,\
Frank

### Interesting Post

> I was considering this the other day...as to why it is so easy to
> revert to a non-lucid state by getting too absorbed in wacky
> hypnagogic images and thoughts.
>
>
> But then I noticed last night the rather obvious fact that this is
> how we fall asleep normally.
>
>
> Then this morning I as talking to an old chap in the dream state
> who explained to me that the best way to avoid this non-lucidity is
> aim for these more self-centered transitionary stages of
> consciousness such as a well established F12, or FZ ("dwelling
> stages of consciousness" as he called it), where consciousness is
> crisp and clear, and yet no particular absorption into anything in
> particular has yet occured.
>
>
> All fairly self-evident, but the goals one sets are very important
> whether operating in the background of the foreground of one's
> awareness, and it struck me that the intent to "go beyond the
> images" as Frank phrased it, is quite important for a succesful
> phase shift to a lucid intermedary state such as FZ.
>
> \-\-\
> Major Tom\
> \-\-

In my book I call them recognition states, which is what you are
terming dwelling stages. The somewhat wishy-washy hypnogogic states
unfortunately absorb our focus of attention like a dry sponge
soaking up water. The images present themselves as a kind of
tantalising alternative, an exercise in attention seduction that
leads us down that slippery slope to sleep. Somehow, the neophyte
practitioner of the art has to find a way of mentally "looking
beyond" the imagery in order to get a fix somewhere in the
distance. Not that there is any distance in that state, but all in
a manner of speaking. It's difficult to explain in words. One day I
hope to develop some computer graphical simulations of typical
experiences. But that's a couple of years away.

Yours,\
Frank
