# Isue 4: 16/July/2005

Hello everyone and welcome to the fourth issue of my newsletter.

I have a treat for you this issue and there have been some good
Phasing posts on the AP forum as well that I reproduce for you
below. But first, three points I would like to mention before we
get stuck in...

First: there are a few places available in the Virtual Classroom,
so if you feel you could benefit from some one-on-one attention to
your needs regarding the Phasing Model of consciousness or the
Monroe Linear Focus model then you are open to subscribe. For full
details of how to subscribe please go to:
http://clicks.aweber.com/z/ct/?Yt1Rm2gIgVKdLWbMIKwQjQ

Second: I want to say again a big THANK YOU to the people who have
made donations. You have each received a personal response from me
but I would like to again acknowledge your kindness and generosity.

In response to quite a few of you who have hinted at such. Ha ha, I
don't blame you, if you don't ask then you don't get, right?

Okay, okay, I give in... here is the offer...

Anyone who donates 25 British Pounds will receive a FREE copy of my
up and coming book Astral Projection Truth. And yes, I will offer
this in retrospect to all who have donated at least this amount
already. You twisted my arm, lol. If you wish to make a donation,
please click on the following link and scroll right to the end of
the page and you will see the PayPal Donate button underneath the
two Virtual Classroom subscription buttons:
http://clicks.aweber.com/z/ct/?Yt1Rm2gIgVKdLWbMIKwQjQ

There is one thing, though, in that I cannot yet give you a
publication date. I insist on not publishing the book merely for
the sake of it, and I was hoping it would be published by now, but
everything appears to be taking quite a bit longer than I thought
(Murphy's Law).

Third: I would like to say a big THANK YOU for all your kind
comments that keep coming in, together with news of your
experiences and so forth. I have tried to respond personally to as
many as I can, but it's becoming impossible for me now to answer
all the emails I receive with a personal thank you.

Some of the comments about your successes make me whoop with joy
and I get so excited for you in your discoveries. It always takes
me right back to when I was making these beginning steps and I'm
ever so pleased for you all. Naturally, I continue to hope for the
very best of success for each and every one of you who wishes to
become accomplished at this art.

Right, so on with the treat I have lined up for you...

I received a number of requests along the lines of, "Frank is there
any way you could publish details of how someone got going at this
in your newsletter? Kind of like a real life story of someone's
experiences, someone who started right from the beginning?"

So I'd just put my thinking cap on and was wondering who I could
ask when I got an email from the lovely Sarah, who many of you know
as Selski of the Astral Pulse forum. After having a little "light
bulb going off in my head moment" I asked her if she would give a
little recount of how she began for the newsletter, and she kindly
agreed. Though I think she is a little nervous at the thought of
being bombarded by questions afterwards, so please go easy on her!

One of the first things that struck me about Sarah is her
thoroughness at her record keeping. She likes to write up all her
experiences, and has kept an accurate record since the start. Doing
this, she feels, gives her a number of worthwhile benefits, in
particular, the ability to be able to look back, read through her
experiences and to realise the progress she has made.

Sarah has progressed over two years from having mere memorable
dreams to creating a successful mental rundown for herself. This
has led her to the stage where it won't be too long before she is
making a successful switch into Primary Focus 2 of consciousness,
and beyond. A number of people have also duplicated her mental
rundown for themselves and have used it to good effect.

You will note she prefers a simple approach to all of this. She
gravitated towards the Monroe School as everything seemed very
straightforward and was presented in a way she could readily
understand. She hopes you will find her story interesting and she
also hopes that it will be of benefit to people, particularly
people just starting out.

So please offer a big hand for the lovely Sarah:

Here's how she began...

Hello, my name is Sarah and many of you will recognise me as Selski
from the Astral Pulse forum. I was first introduced to
"out-of-body" experiences some two years ago. Being an avid dreamer
I was posting a particularly unusual dream on a website, hoping
someone else could give me some pointers. While there, I noticed a
link to lucid dreaming. I knew what these were as I'd had a handful
throughout my life. I very much enjoyed the ones I had, so I
clicked on the link.

While I was soaking up information about lucid dreaming, I spotted
another link to something called "out of body experiences". It said
that these types of experiences were very easy to have from a lucid
dream. This piqued my curiosity. I clicked on the link and read
with amazement about these wonderful experiences. Within a week, I
had a lucid dream, and while doing so I remembered what I had read,
and had my very first classic OBE.

As an aside, I never did manage to interpret the dream that started
it all off in the very first place!

For about 18 months, I had OBEs on average of around once per week.
These tended to "happen to me" rather than me knowing how to make
them happen. I do know that I lived, breathed and ate non-physical
reality during this time (and still do!). The experiences were
short, very frustrating at times and fascinating other times.
Overall, they were a lot of fun. I "played" with them, I tried to
teach myself to fly, I looked in mirrors, and all that kind of
thing.

I was diligent in writing down the details of my experiences as
soon as I returned to the physical. Even if many of them were
similar - I logged them all. Now, two years later, when I read back
I realise how much progress I've made. This can be very encouraging
for me when I go through stages where I feel I'm not getting
anywhere.

I discovered a website in late 2003 called The Astral Pulse. After
lurking for a few months, I became a member and read ever so many
interesting posts. In particular, I was drawn to the posts of two
specific members - Ginny and Frank. I read practically every post
by both of them, and was fascinated by their accounts of something
called "retrievals".

In October 2004, I had a semi-lucid dream where I carried out a
retrieval. This changed everything for me. I realised that
retrievals were something I really wanted to do. I was sick of
"messing around" having short-lived and unsatisfactory OBEs - I
wanted to do something serious and meaningful. But how on earth was
I going to be able to consciously carry them out when my OBEs were
so erratic and I had so little control over them?

This is when Phasing came into my life.

I had read all the Robert Monroe books, and any other books I could
get my hands on about projection. Robert Monroe appealed to me the
most, however, not because I was able to replicate his methods, but
because he spoke in a language that was familiar to me. He didn't
use complicated words that I needed to look up in a dictionary! And
he seemed such a down-to-earth bloke.

I had contemplated purchasing the Monroe CDs for a while, but I had
been put off by the cost. Eventually, I bit the bullet and
purchased the first of the Gateway series of CDs called Wave 1.

I began using the CD and, with some guidance from Frank, I learnt
how to create a mental rundown. Over the course of a few months,
practicing almost daily (time allowing), my rundown became second
nature to me, almost like a "second home". Also, a particular
character I had created in the rundown actually became her own
person, with a distinct personality, and started talking to me
outside of my remit.

I would say that the CD is not strictly necessary, but it is a nice
introduction to relaxation and mental rundowns generally.

Monroe gently takes you from C1, which is the state of being awake
and alert within the physical, to focus 3, which is a very
introspective state. Then you proceed to focus 10 where you "step
inside" your own mind. Then things really start happening at focus
12 and you begin to discover the wider reality proper. All the
while Monroe's soft voice in the background guiding. I found the CD
to be a great discipline as I had paid a substantial amount for
something, therefore, I thought I'd better get on and use it.

My advice would be that if you can afford Wave 1, and it really
won't make a financial hole in your pocket then purchase it.
However, as I said earlier, it isn't strictly necessary and it most
certainly isn't a one-listen wonder that takes you off into "other
worlds" upon first hearing. It is like an instrument and, of
course, instruments take time, effort and patience to learn how to
play well.

The mental rundown can be any scenario you choose.

I find ones involving activity and repetition to be the most
absorbing. It can take some time in learning to use all the senses.
I found it helpful to concentrate first on just one sense, say,
sight. Then slowly incorporate a second sense (touch). Then, slowly
over time, bring all five senses into play. What tends to happen is
when all five senses are running together; I am SO utterly absorbed
in what I'm doing, I momentarily find myself in the scenario that I
have created.

Note: I say "momentarily" because as soon as I realise I am "there"
I snap back out of it. But the ability to remain within the
scenario will come to me with more practice. You see, that's the
key to all of this, practice, practice and more practice.

My personal favourite rundown at the moment is trampolining!

I have had success with this, albeit briefly due to realising I was
actually jumping up and down on a trampoline. This realisation
again had the usual effect of zapping me back to the physical! But
as I say this zapping back will go in time. The rundown is quite
basic. There is a trampoline in an old-school type of gym, with
climbing frames around the walls and a polished wood floor. The
trampoline takes up most of space in the room. There are windows
near the ceiling that you can't see out of unless you jump high. No
one else is in the room.

Now, this may sound incredibly boring, but once I start using my
senses it isn't long before I am practically there. The smell of
the gym (remember that school polished floor/wood smell?) with the
echo of my footsteps in the room. It is a large room and
practically empty apart from the trampoline remember. Even just
typing about it now takes me right there. The height of the edge of
the trampoline, chest-high, the feel of the cool metal as I climb
onto it, then comes the part where I roll over the ropes so I don't
fall through. At which point I tend to look around the room and
note the position of the windows and the climbing frames around the
walls. I even lick my lips and taste the salt.

So there I stand, slightly unbalanced at first while just getting
used to the not-so-solid material beneath my feet. Then it's hey
presto! Let's jump!

Getting the jumps synchronised in my mind was rather tricky at
first. I would be either going in slow motion... or going too fast!
This did have a beneficial affect, however, in that my attempts to
get the jumps perfectly timed meant I was concentrating on them to
a great extent. As I was doing so, I was kind of automatically
becoming absorbed in the rundown.

The great thing about rundowns is you can do them any time. You
don't need to be particularly drowsy or have just woken up or
anything like that. All you need to do is get yourself comfy, relax
a little and away you go.

I also actively practice the Noticing Exercise by Frank.

This is a lovely exercise and one I always enjoy for what it is,
regardless of any outcome. I find the best time for this exercise
is early morning upon wakening, or when I'm a little tired, as long
as I'm not too tired when I will simply fall asleep!

I don't get results when my head is full of physical stuff, though.
I find I simply can't get the swirling colours in my mind's eye.
But when I'm a little sleepy or very relaxed, the colours come and
I enjoy laying back and observing them.

The noticing exercise also helps me OBSERVE rather than LOOK at
what is in my mind's eye. I still feel very new to this.
Unfortunately, at the moment every time I see something out of the
ordinary in my mind's eye, instinctively, my physical eyes go to
look and the image disappears. But I know that eventually my
perseverance and practice will reap good rewards.

This is where I am in my phasing progress. It is early days but I
feel I have come a long way from the fumbling OBEs I used to have.

---------------------------------------------------

Thank you Sarah for your insights.

As I said at the top, there have been a number of good posts on the
Phasing Model of consciousness (and related Monroe work) just
recently and I now present a little digest for you:

## Questions and Answers

### Question 1:

> Hi Frank,
>
> After reading a lot of posts about phasing I started to practice
> with some good results, I think I'm finally grasping the theory,
> things are finally making sense.
>
> But there is something I would like to understand a little better.
> If I would like to focus my consciousness in our own world, lets
> say my own house for example (like if I was trying to have those
> traditional OBE experiences), so I have to try to experience this
> while in F2oC after the rundown or maybe even after the 3D
> blackness? If this is the case, since F2oC is "where" imagination
> and dreams occur, is there a way for me to know that what I'm
> seeing is in fact what there is in our physical reality without
> mixing it with some kind of my own mental rundown ? For example, If
> I try to create a rundown of my own bedroom to help me "start" the
> entire process, then I go to my living room and then to my kitchen,
> is there a possibility that I can see an object that in physical
> world I KNOW that doesn't exist in that place? And if that happen,
> do I have to change the kind of rundown or make something else?

Hi:

I'm pleased to hear things are starting to make sense to you
because that is half the battle won. There is just too much
misinformation on this topic, not on the topic of Phasing, I mean
on this topic as a whole. In my Phasing Model, I try to keep things
as simple as humanly possible while still keeping the approach
effective.

If you wish to Phase to the RTZ then you will find it a LOT easier
to do from Focus 2 of consciousness, typically speaking. You make
the switch and step into your rundown. Now, the BIG problem with
Focus 2 is all your thoughts start coming to life all around you.
That has what has trapped people in the past. They just become
wrapped up in their own belief constructs and blammo; they get
nowhere but la la land, thinking they met the god of their dreams.
Or they end up fighting their own fears. But now, people are
steadily getting the message about Focus 2.

Okay, so once you REALISE where you are, and the nature of the
area, then you know what to do, or, more importantly, what NOT to
do. Once you know that you can then utilise Focus 2 as a handy
springboard to the other areas... WHY?... simple! Because within
this
area of consciousness thought equals action (literally). So all you
need do is simply THINK about what you want to do and, hey presto,
you are doing it!

Right, so you find yourself in the midst of your rundown within
Focus 2. So you immediately stop thinking about that, and so it
stops. You remain entirely neutral, and so your surroundings remain
entirely neutral. Then you detune your awareness of your
surroundings, so your awareness of your surroundings is detuned.
You place the intent to step into the RTZ, and so you do.

Okay, that's the theory. It'll take a bit of practice to do, as you
will likely be flitting about all over the place at first. But
that's the great reason why F2 is such a handy launch pad. Because
as you think then so it becomes... literally... and so that is, of
course, the big PROBLEM as well. But, like I say, now people are
beginning to cut through all the mystical crud and get to grips
with the true nature of this area, they are beginning to learn how
they can use it to their advantage.

When your are within the RTZ it is likely you will have what are
called "overlay" experiences, yes. Chances are you will see your
room, but overlaid upon the scene of that may be circumstances like
objects and things, or all kinds of distortions that you know are
not "really" there, in the physical I mean. But this kind of thing
is normal. Many people tend to describe this effect as "reality
fluctuations" but I never describe it like this anymore as, against
the background of the wider reality, it is a contradiction in
terms. Your reality cannot fluctuate, your reality simply IS.

Yours,\
Frank

### Question 2

> AP Friends,
>
> Just recently I had six astral projections and in the last
> projection I had the opportunity to talk with this girl. I asked
> her name and she replied back and then asked me if I had any
> brothers or sisters. As I was getting ready to answer her I lost
> consciousness and returned back to my physical body.
>
> I wish that I was able to communicate with her more and just get to
> know her and what she was about etc. The only thing that I did
> pickup before approaching her (Flying up to her). That it appeared
> to possible be amish, possible 20th Century clothing. Along with
> her was another girl and she didn't take too kind of me and left.
> They both were sitting on a wooden bridge with rope to hold balance
> and steps.
>
> Has anyone here have had lengthy discussions with people, entities,
> angels, in the astral? Have you been ever able to verify upon
> return to the physical that they once existed here on earth.

Hi:

As regards people, yes, I have managed to make a number of
verifications of people I met within Focus 3 of consciousness of my
Phasing Model. This relates to focuses 23 to 27 inclusive of the
Monroe model or the "Afterlife" region of the Bruce Moen approach.

Having said that, you cannot always speak to people and get
verifiable information. I was speaking just yesterday to a very
interesting lady called Mary who had built herself a wooden church
and was waiting for "god" to come and bless it for her. You cannot
help but have compassion for these people. She had held her faith
all her life that one day she would be meeting "god" after she died
and there she was, waiting for "him".

She asked me if I was waiting for god too, and if I was lost. I
said I was a traveller passing through (as I do). She invited me in
and offered to share what she had. Saying if I was lost then I
could stay in her little place while waiting for "him" and he would
bless me as "he" would her. Once I was "blessed" then off I'd go to
"heaven" and all that jazz. I gave her my thanks and, once I was
out of sight, Phased back to physical to make notes.

There are no easy answers to these kinds of situations.

To people who have never experienced Focus 3 of consciousness all
tends to be cut and dried. A bit black and white you could say. But
99.99% of the time, you come across situations that there are no
real answers to. But occasionally, very occasionally, you get this
little nugget of info you can check and it becomes real. And the
first time that happens to you, you will have a big silly grin on
your face for weeks.

Yours,\
Frank

### Question 3

> From what I've read so far, the phasing model seems to posit an
> awareness within a continuum, existing in all phases simultaneously
> but "focused" on a particular one more than others, e.g typically
> F1.
>
> In this model, what happens to awareness when we sleep? Why doesn't
> this shutdown of attunement in F1 not transition into a full
> awareness of F2, etc? Is there a decoupling with memory? When
> awareness is "lost" in this model, where does it go? And why don't
> we go with it?
>
> Curious...

Hi:

Dreaming is a particular action in consciousness that typically
takes place within the area of Focus 2, in terms of the Phasing
Model. Focus 2 is an area of individual consensus reality "next
door" to the physical you could say. Every action in consciousness
has certain characteristics that pertain to the action in question.
It is a characteristic of dreaming that we typically do not offer
ourselves an objective knowing of this action.

Such actions in consciousness have fairly powerful belief
constructs attached that are linked to all manner of desires,
intents, expectations and outcomes. We can offer ourselves an
objective knowing of the dreaming action if we choose to. Though it
is rather tricky overcoming the underlying beliefs that are
determining our current circumstances surrounding the action.
Keeping a dream-diary is one way of changing your beliefs in this
area in order to create a different outcome through adopting the
expression of a changed expectation.

Primary beliefs, desires, intents, expectations and outcomes are
all inextricably linked in the same action-equation in
consciousness. This means if you change one then everything changes
to some extent.

Yours,\
Frank

### Question 4

> Here's a rundown I've been playing with:
>
> I imagine myself in 1st person at a neighborhood swimming pool I
> grew up near. Smelling the chlorine in the air, I walk across the
> concrete, feeling it on my bare feet, towards the diving board. I
> feel the steps on my feet and the course-ness of the board, and
> feel the metal hand-rails. I can feel the sun on me and a breeze
> that makes me a little cold from being wet. I run and jump off the
> end, hearing the bounce of the board and the splash of the water,
> then the quiet, mute underwater noises, pushing myself off the
> bottom towards the ladder, climbing up and doing it over and over
> again.
>
> Is this what I'm looking for in a rundown? I haven't phased doing
> it, but it keeps my senses engaged and focused away from my
> physical body - that's the idea, right?

Hi:

A good rundown is something that captures the attention and engages
the senses. Make it too simple and you'll get bored and give up or
fall asleep. Make it too complex and you'll likely lose the thread
of it, then get bored or fall asleep. Also, it would be helpful
engaging the Monroe focus 3 state before initiating your rundown.

Yours,\
Frank

### Question 5

> I just have one simple question. Is it possible that the vibrations
> felt during traditional OBE attempts are actually the feeling of
> something "your other body" 180 degrees out of phase.

Hi:

The classic vibrations are the energetic sensations felt from the
various energy centres that act as an interface between the pure
subjective energy of consciousness and the physical brain and body.
People who specifically practice "energy work" regularly experience
all manner of energetic sensations including vibrations of various
types.

Practicing the Phasing approach can lead a person to feeling mild
energetic sensations that are typically felt as a slight
static-electricity type of feeling. Tingling and crackling sounds
that can sound rather like the hissing of high voltage electricity
pylons when it's damp and the air is very humid. But that's about
it.

Yours,\
Frank

### Question 6

> Hi Frank,
>
> OK that was the insight I was needing, thank you very much. I was
> using the F2oC as the launching pad as you say, but once there, I
> was unsure about what to do next... Now things make a lot more of
> sense, so lets begin the exploring party!
>
> Just one more thing: F2oC is "where" our dreams come true,
> literally, ok we know that very well. We can create anything we
> could imagine, right. The question here is: do we have this kind of
> ease while in F3oC? If we go to the area we know as Focus 27 in
> Monroe model of consciousness for example (The Park) can I create
> things like I do while in F2oC?
>
> Thank you very much helping with this subject and everything
> related with phasing as well. I am one of those people ho have
> tried to have OBE for some time (2 years and a half in my case)
> with minimum results, and now I know I won over a big paradigm I
> had for a very long time, I'm seeing results, that's fantastic!

Hi:

Glad to hear you are making progress. Be careful though with the F2
environment, it can be a bit volatile. You will find there are
different regions in F2 that you have apportioned to hold all
manner of memories, beliefs, fears emotions and allsorts. If you
happen to stray into a region where you are holding all manner of
fear constructs then you are going to meet your worst fears head
on, in glorious 3D Technicolor. :)  That is unfortunately what
happens to a LOT of people who subscribe to the old mystical demon
and devil style constructs. They end up in Focus 2 and meet these
constructs head on.

In the old days, generally, the explorers of the day didn't
actually realise they were in an area of individual consensus
reality. Unfortunately, some people today still do not realise
this. In the old days, they thought they were actually "travelling"
to a separate place they named "the astral". Whatever belief
constructs they subscribed to about this weird and wonderful world,
as they saw it, they met head on, of course. Whatever you believe
that is what you see. And I really do mean "whatever".
Unfortunately that is the big danger of the place. But once you
realise that you are actually within your own individual area of
mind then it becomes **much** easier to manage.

I say there are "dangers" but there are tremendous joys to be had
as well. Myself, I love running through all my childhood memories,
for example. Anything you ever felt, saw, experienced, etc., etc.,
in your life, you can "relive" again within Focus 2 and in stunning
detail. Absolutely anything and everything your physical senses
have ever experienced, and I mean that LITERALLY, is recorded by
your senses and "stored" within Focus 2, plus all your dreams too.

Now, if you shift your focus of attention to Focus 3 of
consciousness, please understand that you are still not in a
separate place. You are still within your own consciousness
continuum. But Focus 3 is an area of common consensus reality, so
things are very much like the physical. Within Focus 3, you can
construct whatever you like. I made a tree house in a dense forest
that ran to the edge of a lake. I made an ocean and a lovely
open-plan house with a veranda that led out onto the sand. I've
created all manner of plants, grasses, fish and other animals.

Now, the great thing is, within Focus 3, once you create it, it
remains until you choose to change it. So you can go to it whenever
you like. People in the know, so to speak, construct a place for
themselves so, when they permanently disengage in a physical sense,
i.e. when they "die" that is where they go... to their own place
within F27, or the upper branches of Focus 3 as I call it.

It's quite tricky learning to create things in F27. You have to
merge with the underlying subjective energy. It is not like F2
where your thoughts immediately come to life. You have to
concentrate a little harder. But there is a knack to it that you
soon pick up and then it becomes second nature. If you get stuck,
simply ask someone to help you. You'll find people are ever so
helpful. Also, at focus 27 do not be surprised to get all manner of
people who obviously know you very well, coming up to say hello.
Yet you haven't got the foggiest idea who they are!

Yours,\
Frank

### Question 7

> I left work yesterday, took the text of your post home with me,
> while I was having dinner I read it through several times, so as to
> get the words imprinted. Later on I got some time to try it out,
> went through the usual relaxation stuff, after about 1/2 an hour
> I'd gotten to the 'relax-the-eyeballs' point. This time round it
> was alot easier, tho I had to wrestle a bit with keeping them still
> and after about 10 mins they finally behaved. I was then mulling
> over what you'd been saying about focusing beyond the images(But
> without thinking too much), got the occasional image pop up, but
> made the concerted effort to ignore what was appearing and began
> pushing/pulling my mental focus to beyond where I'd normally see
> these images. I started to get a buzzing in my forehead and a kind
> of swirly sense of movement, thought "Whoa! Whoa! What's going on
> here!?"
> So I put the...err...brakes on, if that's the right word? (Felt
> like when you're rolling a car back, but a bit at a time to
> maintain control.)
> All the tension in the eyes and forebrain just dropped away and I'm
> in a dark space. When I say space it appeared like the inside of my
> head had become cavernous, what I could see as such were not lights
> as such, but like a negative image of white noise you see on the
> tv, when not tuned to a station. I thought to myself WOW! what an
> incredible sensation! I felt really free and relaxed, no sensation
> of body as such and the breathing had disappeared somewhere too...
> Ahem....Unfortunately then, after having about 10 mins of this the
> mp3 track I use stopped and I got blasted with one of the songs I
> listen to during the day, it snapped me out of it real quick!
>
> So I guess this must have been focus 10? I suppose what I need to
> do is to fire up the imagination and picture a scene? to get to f2?
>
> Now at least I know what I need to aim for, for the time being.
> Happy focus 10!
>
> Cheers,

Hi:

The actual effects of the focus 10 state do vary from person to
person. But the common factors are that you "become" within your
own mind in a kind of twilight zone between the physical and the
start of your own mind proper. The physical is "back there"
somewhere. You are totally free of it and free to simply wander
about in a kind of 3D space "within your head" so to speak. This is
focus 10.

At focus 10, your body is NOT just very relaxed that you cannot
feel it and you are perhaps seeing images in your mind that are
grabbing your focus of attention. No, there is a definite shift, a
definite withdrawal of your focus from the physical into your own
mind. As your focus shifts, you feel it distinctly. The preliminary
state, the feeling of being very relaxed and having your attention
focused inwards is focus 3. At focus 3, you are still very much
"in" the physical body but you have, in a sense, "forgotten" that
you have one. Because what has happened is, your attention has
turned inwards and you are now laying back looking at all the
pretty patterns and things that a person typically offers
themselves.

But at focus 10, there is a definite shift away from the physical.
You are free to roam about within the 3D space within your mind.
You have "stepped into" your mind, whereas at focus 3 you are in
the position of looking into it after having turned your attention
inwards. In other words, at focus 10 you have "stepped into" the
area where you were looking at before at focus 3.

The other thing I think you are getting to grips with now is these
focus states are something you have to mentally "reach" for. I
think the modernism would be being "pro-active". You need to fuel
it by looking ahead and anticipating with a high degree of
expectation. But at the same time you can't force it. It's a tricky
kind of mental balancing act.

Yours,\
Frank

### Question 8

> Hello,
>
> I'm just kind of wondering how can you tell if a person in the
> non-physical is real or if it's simply your imagination making it
> up? or is it one of those things were you just know it from
> instinct?

Hi:

This is one of the big benefits of realising there are primary
areas in consciousness. Primary Focus 2 is an area of individual
consensus reality. So here you are viewing your own constructs. The
only "communication" possible within this area from the "outside"
so to speak, is telepathy.

You can receive impressions or feelings, and such like, that you
could say are not your own. In doing so, you can convert these
mental impressions into images. For example, if you receive a
telepathic communication from a close friend then, as the signal
comes into mind, you may create a picture of your friend, and that
kind of thing. But these images are your mind-created realities.

As you step into Primary Focus 3 then this is an area of common
consensus reality much like the physical is. Here you can meet
people in a totally objective sense exactly as you can while
physical. Within this region it is obvious these people are not
merely creations of your own imagination. It is as obvious as it is
apparent that other people are not merely creations of your
imagination within the physical.

Yours,\
Frank

### Question 9

> hi, this is my first post here. I found this place because I am
> looking for someone to possibly help a little with my difficulties
> with expanding my consciousness. I'm not quite sure what 'expanding
> my consciousness' would exactly even be or feel like. Though it is
> a goal of mine to gain wisdom of who I am and the world I live in.
> I am not sure I am ready for astral projection so mainly right now
> I want to open up my creative and intellectual abilities to my
> fullest and to experience God and love.
>
> I am using hemi-sync's The gateway experience Wave 1 Discovery. I
> am hoping that someone here might be familiar with it.
>
> I have trouble with even being relaxed in Focus ten. Usually I lay
> there and my body does not feel asleep what so ever. I even have
> trouble with relaxing my eyelids and keeping them closed. It feels
> like nothing much is happening. The most I can think of is thinking
> I have heard weird sounds that weren't on the cd and possibly
> hearing other people talking but not being able to understand, sort
> of dreamy, like once you realize you hear it, it's gone. Well, sort
> of I guess. So the problem with Focus ten for me is that I do not
> feel like my body is asleep at all, it just feels like I'm laying
> there trying to be still and then becoming frustrated. Sometimes my
> body actually gets uncomfortable and I get really hot and I start
> to feel very frustrated. But when it is over my temperature and
> body seems to become more comfortable. It is hard to relax while
> trying to be in Focus ten and it frustrating because the cd talks
> as though I should feel extremely relaxed.
>
> When I try to create my Resonant Energy Balloon, REBAL, I don't see
> anything or really feel much of anything either. Although there has
> been times I have felt safer after going through the procedure of
> creating it. Sometimes it seems more like I'm pretending I am
> creating it. I just did a session with it about 45 minutes ago and
> I noticed that I got really hot for the whole session soon after I
> did the resonant breathing and the procedure to create my REBAL.
>
> I am still going to keep on trying but since I have never done this
> before nor have ever known anyone who has I am not sure if it is
> working. I have been using Wave 1 for like 2 or 3 weeks now. I am
> almost starting to worry I just can't open myself to it or that
> maybe it just doesn't work for me. Is this normal? Is there
> something else I should be doing? Will things progress as I keep
> listening to the cds? I have trouble relaxing my body and I don't
> know what to do about that.

Hi:

I cannot help you with the "god" thing but if you want some
assistance with the Wave 1 CD, I reckon I could give you some
pointers. :)

You say you are not sure what "expanding your consciousness" is.
Firstly, you cannot expand your consciousness. You can widen your
awareness but consciousness cannot be expanded. Consciousness is
what moves us, what gives us life. Consciousness is to us as water
is to a fish. Widening your awareness is all to do with offering
yourself an objective knowing of the Wider Reality. In other words,
gaining familiarity with other areas of consciousness in addition
to the physical, rather than instead of the physical.

As regards your use of the CDs, I would suggest you take a BIG step
back. You say you have trouble with being relaxed in focus 10. This
is a contradiction in terms as focus 10 is the MABA (mind awake,
body asleep) state. If you are not relaxed then you cannot be at
the focus 10 state. It is useless trying to progress without being
able to achieve the previous state. The CDs are an aid to achieving
the various states. They in no way force the state upon you.

I always say that everything kicks-off proper at focus 10. So it's
a bit of a milestone state is focus 10. The key to achieving focus
10 is achieving the focus 3 state. If you cannot achieve focus 3
then you will have problems achieving all the other states. You
will simply lay back and nothing will happen (as is happening in
your case). Personally, I say all you need is Wave 1 because once
you can achieve a solid focus 10 that's it, you're off.

You are having difficulties relaxing your physical body for some
reason. Your face and eyes need to be relaxed particularly, else
you will never achieve focus 3. If you want creative inspiration
then focus 3 is the state for getting in touch with this aspect of
you. Any time I'm stuck for an idea I slip into the focus 3 state
and I can usually get all the inspiration I need while in this
state.

My advice is to put the CDs aside for a little while and spend a
few weeks practicing the Noticing exercise I talk about in the FAQ
section under the "What is Phasing?" topic. This little exercise
gets you relaxed and looking within you and is designed to take you
to the focus 3 state. Once you are comfortable with the idea of
focus 3 then start with the CD and see how you go. I just feel that
listening to the CD without any concrete results is simply going to
frustrate you more than anything.

At the focus 10 state you "become" within your own mind in a kind
of twilight zone between the physical and the start of your own
mind proper. The physical is "back there" somewhere. You are
totally free of it and free to simply wander about in a kind of 3D
space "within your head" so to speak. This is focus 10. At focus
10, your body is NOT just very relaxed that you cannot feel it and
you are perhaps seeing images in your mind that are grabbing your
focus of attention. No, there is a definite shift, a definite
withdrawal of your focus from the physical into your own mind. As
your focus shifts, you feel it distinctly.

The preliminary state, focus 3, is a feeling of being very relaxed
and having your attention focused inwards. At focus 3, you are
still very much "in" the physical body but you have, in a sense,
"forgotten" that you have one. Because what has happened is, your
attention has turned inwards and you are now lying back looking at
all the pretty patterns and things that a person typically offers
themselves.

But at focus 10, there is a definite shift away from the physical.
You are free to roam about within the 3D space within your mind.
You have "stepped into" your mind, whereas at focus 3 you are in
the position of looking into it after having turned your attention
inwards. In other words, at focus 10 you have "stepped into" the
area where you were looking at before at focus 3.

Yours,\
Frank

### Question 10

> I have been busily reading posts, and just need to get something
> straight in my mind. What is the difference between meditation and
> astral phasing (I hope I've used the right terminology)?
>
> I here people mention they visit different places in the astral
> plain and can come across beings that they can communicate with,
> etc when astral phasing - but this all sounds like what you do in
> meditation to me.
>
> Someone please explain!?

Hi:

I, personally, don't know the differences because, as I have said a
number of times, I'm not exactly sure what meditation is.

I tried to find out once but the descriptions vary depending on the
beliefs of whoever was putting forward the description. If anyone
has any links to particular studies, I mean studies of an objective
nature, I'd be grateful. This is a topic I wish to cover in my book
to help people who can already meditate, convert to the more
modern-day Phasing ideology.

On one website, for example, one with a primarily Buddhist slant,
they were talking about no less than 500 different types of
meditation. I mean, that's just daft in my view. How can there
seriously be 500 types? If each type took a person just 3 months to
learn it would be 125 years before that person could form any
conclusion as to which type was best for them. A highly impractical
proposition. Anyhow, I gave up in the end.

I came to a kind of loose consensus about this and concluded that
meditation is probably some kind of state similar to the Monroe
focus 3 state. Only with a different balance of elements in the
underlying action-equation in consciousness.

I note you use the term "astral" Phasing. In effect, it would
depend on what you are calling "astral".

Astral is a label with mystical origins and Phasing does not
incorporate any "astral" belief constructs. The term Phasing was
brought about originally by the author Robert Monroe who went on to
found the Monroe Institute. I named my model the Phasing Model of
consciousness in honour of his work.

Monroe was the world's foremost modern-day pioneer at this art, and
his work dispels many of the old mystical notions and
assumptions... including that of "astral". He he, "astral phasing"
that would have Monroe turning in his grave that would. :)

Problem is, to the mystics anything non-physical is "astral". They
haven't yet realised that consciousness is apportioned into 4
Primary Areas.

It is now coming to light that the very early teachings from
thousands of years ago would basically agree with the above. Plus,
the more modern-day practitioners would agree also. It's just the
mystics in the middle who remain at variance. But I guess even they
might encompass this reality in a few hundred years or so. :)

Yours,\
Frank

### Question 11

> I have been trying to astral project for about a year now with no
> success, I have been reading about phasing however and I am left
> confused.
>
> When you astral project you are taken to the spiritual planes,
> where you can explore and blah blah blah.
>
> I read a post on the astral pulse island which explained you can
> get there through phasing, but the island is in the spiritual
> planes?
>
> So phasing and astral projection both lead to the spiritual plains?
> And if they do how so?

Hi:

When you "astral project" a person typically engages an
action-equation within the area known as Primary Focus 2 of
consciousness that incorporates a particular mix of the elements of
Beliefs, Desires, Expectations and Intents for a given Outcome.

Phasing is also an action-equation in consciousness, but the
balance of the elements that go to forming that equation are rather
different. This is because Phasing is a term that represents an
entirely different, more modern-day ideology. An ideology that does
not incorporate any "spiritual" belief constructs, or any other
religious or mystical belief constructs.

Your explanation presupposes a number of traditional, more mystical
factors that are not simply not part of the Phasing Model
action-equation.

The "astral plains" model is a more traditional model of
consciousness where, in the formation of the model, people assumed
a number of aspects about the Wider Reality that we are realising
now don't quite add up. As such, there is often no direct
correlation between the traditional models and the modern-day
models of consciousness.

Phasing does not lead a person to any kind of "plain", spiritual or
otherwise. Nor is Phasing about placing value judgements on any
particular experience. Phasing, in a nutshell, is the action of a
person shifting their mental focus of attention to a different part
of their own consciousness continuum.

Yours,\
Frank

### Question 12

> Hello Frank,
>
> I find that your model of consciousness is very user-friendly. As
> of late, I have discovered that my mind is not located inside my
> head as I have usually placed it, but rather it lies elsewhere.
>
> It is strange to describe, but I believe that you have put it into
> words as best as possible in describing it as a 180 degree change
> in focus. For me it seems that there is a screen "infront" of me
> that I can fix my awareness upon. Maybe, more accureately, it is a
> screen within that I fix my awareness upon. (something just past my
> thoughts, although those thoughts may imprint upon that screen)
>
> However, I do have trouble. I often slip into a dreamstate, when I
> start to focus on this screen. I get caught up in those thoughts,
> which turn into a dream scenario. These dreams are especially
> intense in the morning when I first wake up and then go back to
> sleep. Ocassionally, I will achieve a lucid state, but only
> momentarilly. Then, I will fall back into the flow of my dream,
> without the realization that I am dreaming.
>
> I know I have posted similar posts before and yet I have still to
> move beyond my current limitations.
>
> Often, I will be fully awake and aware of my physical surroundings,
> yet I will also be aware of the dreamstate thoughts that I am
> having. Is this what you would call f1/f2 overlay?
>
> I find it difficult to reach an f10 state without getting
> sidetracked into my thoughts and dreams. Is this a hurdle to
> overcome or is there something else that I should be doing in order
> to maintain the f10 state while these dream thoughts are taking up
> my focus?
>
> I am curious, how does f3 different from f10? also, do you have any
> tips on how to avoid slipping into the dreamstate? I find it so
> overwhelming, in that I can not distinquish from dream and reality
> even though I may be trying to maintain my focus from a waking
> state to a f10 state.

Hi:

With the model, I tried to strip away everything except the bare
bones that made it work, so to speak. Between my Primary Focus
numbers and Monroe's more individual attention focuses, anyone
should be able to get a good idea of what's what but in a more
modern-day sense.

You are falling into the clutches of the Million Meanderings, I
see. I know what you mean when you say you slip back into a dream
without realising you are dreaming. This also happens to me
sometimes. Especially if I'm feeling a little drowsy.

Yes, being aware of the physical, albeit perhaps with a reduced
sensory input, and being aware of some "within" issue such as a
dream, is an overlay experience. An overlay experience is where you
are objectively viewing or otherwise experiencing more than one
area of consciousness at the same time. So you could have an F1/F3
overlay, or an F2/F3 overlay, for instance. Note: I always put the
dominant focus first. Generally, you will find in an overlay
experience one focus will be more dominant than the other focus or
focuses. It doesn't have to be between just two Primary Focus
states. It is possible to have, say, an F1/F2/F3 overlay. He he,
rather confusing but very possible.

At the moment, it sounds like you are in a solid Monroe focus 3
state. That is when you are viewing your screen or any other kind
of pattern or image and you know you are in the physical, but with
a reduced sensory input. Now, the next step is to "step into" that
screen, or step into your mind. This is what you are doing, but, as
you do so, you are engaging a dream action rather than the Phasing
action of stepping within your mind with full conscious awareness.

Here is what I said about the differences between f3 and f10 in
another post just recently:

The actual effects of the focus 10 state do vary from person to
person. But the common factors are that you "become" within your
own mind in a kind of twilight zone between the physical and the
start of your own mind proper. The physical is "back there"
somewhere. You are totally free of it and free to simply wander
about in a kind of 3D space "within your head" so to speak. This is
focus 10.

At focus 10, your body is NOT just very relaxed that you cannot
feel it and you are perhaps seeing images in your mind that are
grabbing your focus of attention. No, there is a definite shift, a
definite withdrawal of your focus from the physical into your own
mind. As your focus shifts, you feel it distinctly. The preliminary
state, the feeling of being very relaxed and having your attention
focused inwards is focus 3. At focus 3, you are still very much
"in" the physical body but you have, in a sense, "forgotten" that
you have one. Because what has happened is, your attention has
turned inwards and you are now laying back looking at all the
pretty patterns and things that a person typically offers
themselves.

But at focus 10, there is a definite shift away from the physical.
You are free to roam about within the 3D space within your mind.
You have "stepped into" your mind, whereas at focus 3 you are in
the position of looking into it after having turned your attention
inwards. In other words, at focus 10 you have "stepped into" the
area where you were looking at before at focus 3.

Okay, so your attention has turned inwards and you are laying back
looking at all the pretty patterns you are offering yourself. So as
I say you are at a definite focus 3 state. But when you come to
make that "shift" within yourself, you are engaging the wrong
action, i.e. you are engaging a dream action. I think you are doing
this out of habit. Perhaps try focusing "beyond" the screen or
whatever other imagery is in the foreground of your inner
awareness. It would appear that your focusing on the screen itself
is seducing your awareness and leading you into the region of the
Million Meanderings.

I would say that the stepping into yourself to enter the focus 10
state is perhaps the trickiest part of this stage. You have to walk
a very fine line between falling out of the state or falling into
dreamland. There is that centre road that tends to get wider, hence
easier to proceed along, the more you practice. So as I say, try
focusing your attention a little way "beyond" the foreground
imagery.
But you are definitely on the right track. Everything you talk
about I recognise only too well. It's just that you are kinda
walking a bit of a mental tightrope at this point. :)
I'm sure it will come with practice.

Yours,\
Frank

### Question 13

> What is the correct way to rotate a Chakra? Does anyone know? I'm
> not sure if it's clockwise or counter wise, or what the effects of
> doing so are.

Hi:

In nature, creative energies tend to spin clockwise as we would
call it.

These energy centres are whorls of energetic movement, they are not
fixed in stone. But you can imagine them as a kind of sphere in the
approximate locations you see typically presented. They spin
clockwise and are oriented such that they spin along the axis of
the spine.

The further "up" you go the faster they spin. It starts at the root
(red) and you could think of this red centre spinning at about 10
or 12 times a second. Then add that factor for each one going up.
The strongest vibrational colour is, therefore, Purple. This energy
centre has a strong directing influence on all the others.

They are translated as different colours, as colour has different
vibrational qualities that are affecting, in terms of energy, in
different ways. Colour is a Truth. Meaning, there is a
representation of colour within all dimensions. Energy has specific
qualities that objectively translate in particular ways, and one of
those ways in which we objectively view these particular
differences or translations is in terms of colour.

Each energy centre is affecting of various functions of the body.
But this is to be thought of, again, as not absolutely fixed in
stone. Because all the energy centres are affecting of each other
to varying degrees. They are NOT acting in isolation, in the sense
of each energy centre doing their particular bit (as I have seen
many websites trying to make out). They are all influencing of each
other and all work in combination. But there is a particular accent
placed on each centre to the extent where a particular energy
centre could be said to be more influencing of certain factors over
another.

In the instance of "healing" oneself, for example, which is what I
suspect you are thinking of, then the energy centre that is the
most affecting is the 4th one up, which is the green or the heart
centre as it is often called.

Yours,\
Frank

### Question 14

> That's interesting stuff Frank.
>
> What struck me was your comment about F34/35 being physical. This
> was in fact in accordance with some of the experiences mentioned by
> Monroe as it being conglomeration of physical and non-physical
> visitors surrounding the earth's atmosphere.
>
> As far as authentication...I'm not sure about the best way to go
> about it.
>
> Maybe the best authentication is something that the individual
> you're talking to would have to offer.
>
> I'd be interested to know what take you had on the personality of
> the person you met.

I agree, very interesting.

In terms of the original model, it would be assumed that a focus
state higher than focus 27 would be "further out" in terms of an
area of mental focus. But it would appear that everything just
becomes muddled with this focus 34/35 concept that I always said
just didn't add up. Well, not for me at any rate as it simply did
not concur with my experience.

In my experience, there is nothing "beyond" focus 27 in the sense
of the continuation of a series of objectively oriented focus
states that are in some way more profound or meaningful, let's say,
than focus 27. Focus 27 is on the "edge" of that area in
consciousness that "begins" at focus 23. It was my attempts to go
"beyond" focus 27 that led me to formulating the view that the
structure of consciousness was laid out into what I now call
Primary Areas of Focus.

As you know I'm not religious at all but the very early teachings
would appear to concur with this type of structure. That is, when
you cut through all the layers of religious conditioning that has
been laid on them by generations.

I studied Judaism in some detail and I have had a number of AP
members who have come back to me saying how they have looked at
other basic teachings. Now they know what to look for, they've been
digging through all the mystical and religious conditioning that
has been heaped on them over hundreds of generations and, sure
enough, in the midst of all the flowery lingo many basic teachings
from several sources appear to be talking of this 4-area structure
of consciousness as well.

On the surface, then, it would appear that the whole religious
"thing" that all these generations have been getting off on the
past 2000 years or so, has been a mere distraction, a tangent to
nowhere you could say.

Anyhow, getting back to the f34/f35 thing, it would seem this is
not a focus state "beyond" focus 27 at all. But the label attached
to a particular focus within the wider physical. Ha ha, no wonder I
couldn't find it. But it still sounds a tad weird. All those little
green men in flying saucers making meep-meep noises monitoring
Earth changes. It all sounds more than a little far-fetched to me.
But now I know where in the structure of consciousness this focus
state is meant to be, I suppose I now have a better chance of
checking it out.

The interesting aspect about his, for me, is to do with my
investigation into the workings of these Trans-Dimensional areas in
consciousness. There are many, many other physical worlds (could be
an infinite number) and the weird thing is they all occupy the same
physical space. The actual characteristics of the different
dimensions can be wildly different but they all have this one thing
in common, in that they occupy the same space. Anyhow, what
"separates" them, if you like, are these Trans-Dimensional areas in
consciousness that allows each physical universe to overlay on one
another.

Now, I have it on good authority that it IS possible to "travel"
between Trans-Dimensional areas. When I say travel I mean actual
physical travel. It is also possible to do this non-physically as
well I am told. So my theory is that these UFO sightings are, in
fact, a kind of "bleed through" from another Trans-Dimensional
area. An area that has people living within it who have already
learnt how to design some kind of craft with the ability to travel
between physical dimensions.

I also feel I am on the verge of solving the mystery surrounding
the mystical notions of reincarnation, and this is wrapped up in
the above I feel.

There is something about linear time that just doesn't add-up to
me, there's something freaky about it that I cannot yet explain. So
many times I have felt on the verge of a major realisation about
it, but it won't come through into my area of objective knowing. I
can experience it, as a concept, within Primary Focus 4 of
consciousness, but I cannot bring it into my area of Primary Focus
2. Linear time could well be completely mind created and every
aspect of our lives could actually be occurring at the same point
in time. Plus, I'm getting to the stage where I'm becoming
convinced that each person exists in his or her very own dimension
of existence.

Anyhow, it's all early days yet but it is an exciting prospect (or
it is for me at least) that the realisation or the knowing of how
these Trans-Dimensional areas function, could hold the key to the
eventual development of some kind of interdimensional craft. Not
that I am saying that I personally could ever build one (perchance
to dream!) but even to just get the theory down on paper would be a
major step forwards.

Yours,\
Frank

### Question 15

> This is the first time that I have posted a question (yes I have
> read the faq) so I hope someone can help.
>
> First let me say that I have been trying to project for quite some
> time with limited success. The other day being quiet I thought I
> would try the phasing method, so I lay down closed my eyes and
> began relaxing and looking into the 2d darkness. Next thing I knew
> I had lost feeling of my physical body. The darkness had now taken
> on a kaleidoscopic effect with the colors all being black. My only
> thoughts at this time were 'that's odd, not seen that before,
> wheres the color' and then just as suddenly I was back fully aware
> and lying on my bed.
>
> What I want to know is did I experience F3oc and is it ok or normal
> to skip F2oc altogether. Also how did I get there? When relaxing
> and looking into the 2d dark I tend to see yellowish grey blobs
> floating past and a lot faces flashing in and out of existence so I
> try to focus beyond the blackness. Mostly I fall asleep and I have
> only had maybe half a dozen OoBE over the past several years so
> this could be real progress.
>
> Any input would be gratefully received as I hope to be sharing any
> future success with you all.

Hi:

It is okay to skip any number of inbetween states and directly
transition to whatever area you like. It is not what you might call
normal as, at first, people tend to make staged transitions rather
than direct transitions. But as a person becomes more experienced
the prospect of making direct transitions becomes more likely.

With beginners I tend to prefer talking in terms of the Monroe
individual attention states. Simply because they are quite easy to
understand and, with a little practice, they become immediately
recognisable.

From what you say you were in the midst of achieving the Monroe
focus 3 state, which I would say is a definite sign of progress.
Your post also provides a great demonstration of a point I have
been trying to get across for a while now about how pointing your
focus of attention within you, tends to have the effect of
"switching off" the feeling of the physical.

Yours,\
Frank

### Question 16

> On several occasions I've recollected an AP upon waking that
> occurred during a dream. These APs seem the same as others that
> didn't involve dreaming, but were they a real AP or just a dream?
> Here's an example:
>
> Last night, upon waking, I recollected the following: I was having
> a dream about being in a church with my wife and some others. It
> was time for bed and I was tired and so I went into a bedroom in
> the church to sleep. I was a bit annoyed that my wife, instead of
> coming with me, chose to stay up with the others. I drifted off to
> sleep and the next thing I know I woke to vibrations (was I really
> having vibrations or dreaming I was having them?) and I sat up and
> out of my body and floated out to where my wife and several others
> were having a conversation in the church. I floated into the middle
> of their group and they saw something and began freaking out a bit.
> I tried to explain that it was just me but they apparently couldn't
> recognize that it was me and couldn't hear me. I figured I had
> better go get back in my body and straighten the situation out with
> them. I went back to my body and woke up.
>
> That's all I remember and I don't remember whether I woke up in the
> dream or for real in my bed.
>
> So, did I actually AP or just dream of it? And is it possible to
> wake up (in real life) and then AP back into a situation you were
> just dreaming about?
>
> Curious if anyone else has these types of experiences?

Hi:

Many people get these kinds of experiences and it is only natural
to question the "reality" of them. The question that often comes
about is the classic, "Was this real or just a dream?" In this
respect, people are making the assumption that the physical is the
"real" reality against which they judge the realness of any other
experience they may happen to have.

But a person's reality is wherever they happen to focus their
attention. That is why, these days, I especially avoid the use of
the term "reality fluctuations". I have used it in the past in a
manner of speaking, but I specifically avoid using it at all now,
as it can be highly misleading regardless of the context in which
it is used. Quite simply, a person's reality cannot fluctuate. A
person's reality simply is.

It is, however, natural to question the validity of any particular
experience and to ask all manner of other questions. This is
something I do with myself ALL the time. In fact, I would say that
this is what separates the genuine explorer of the Wider Reality
from the mystics. For mystics, by definition, love to revel in
mysticism. Asking questions and delving into the experience in
order to uncover the facts, to discover the simple truth, to roll
up your sleeves and get down to the plain and simple nitty-gritty...
doing that is all to do with dispelling mysticism... which is an
anathema to the mystic, as it is contrary to everything they
believe in, against everything they stand for.

However, it is one thing to ask a question, and it is quite another
thing getting an answer that makes sense. :)  Your situation neatly
exemplifies the difficulties people often have when trying to come
to terms with, or otherwise make sense of these experiences. In a
nutshell, it all boils down to a question of focus. This is
something Monroe's work highlighted to a great extent. In truth,
reality is a question of focus. Hence, where you point your focus
of attention becomes your reality.

In the old days they would try to get this idea across by pointing
out classic questions like, "If a tree falls in a forest and there
is no one there to hear it, does it make a sound?"

Okay, stuff like that is a bit old-hat now because we know it does,
we can record it on tape. But when these kinds of questions were
first being banded about there was no such thing as recording. So I
guess that in their day these questions were quite effective in
getting people thinking along the right lines. I always chuckle at
the modern-day variant that says, if a man does something wrong and
there isn't a woman around to point it out, does that mean he's
right?

Anyhow, these days the more modern-day practitioners of this art
tend not to think in terms of certain kinds of realities being any
more, or any less "real" than any other. They think in terms of
"focus" and "attention".

Yours,\
Frank

### Question 17

> Well Frank....A woman is now on the scene!!....but I won't try to
> dictate that you are wrong!
>
> In this, I think that what you say is very provocative (which has a
> better than average chance of 'being right'!!...JK!) Your
> explanation certainly rings true, but is it really an explanation,
> or is it just a definition of terms?... I understand that to say
> --- "my reality includes" AP or Phasing or whatever we want to call
> it, as well as the many other things that I do thoughout my day ---
> is a correct and logical statement...for that is MY experience,
> hence, MY REALITY.
>
> But, how do we explain, or account for, a living reality that is
> not as easily accessed as my car, for instance, and includes other
> entities that I have no sure, consistantly predictable, way of
> contacting--except through an altered state of consciousness? Are
> these experiences extraordinary dreams, or is our ability to claim
> this unique kind of reality as being our own just extraordinary
> circumstances?
>
> Additionally, how do we account for 'the implications of a living
> reality' that is not shared by those around us? In other words,
> while my neighbors, family, friends and associates most definately
> share the more tangible aspects of my reality, they do not share
> this much more intimate aspect. More often than not, I feel as
> though I am straddling a chasm between, what seems to be, 'more
> than one world' -- 'more than one reality'. One of which I can
> share with others, and the other I cannot.
>
> How do you deal with this Frank?

Hi:

My response was largely in answer to the specific question asked in
the opening paragraph of the original post, namely, "...These APs
seem the same as others that didn't involve dreaming, but were they
a real AP or just a dream?" [my italics]

This "realness" question is a popular beginner's question, as it
happens, and my answer is largely the same in each case, i.e. it
all boils down to the basic rule that where you point your focus of
attention becomes your reality.

Against the background of the Wider Reality there is no area of
consciousness, or point of individual focus that is any more or any
less "real" than another. Obviously, as we are all here, the
physical is our Resident Focus. Being such it has the effect of
capturing our attention to a high degree. This effect, I agree, can
certainly give the impression that the area of the physical is
perhaps more "real" than any other. But this is merely a distortion
and all Resident Focuses tend to have that effect on a person.
People who are normally resident within Primary Focus 3 have the
same kind of magnetic attraction to that Focus as we have within
the physical.

I can see where you are going with this in introducing the idea of
different categories of reality and noting various differences, for
example, in terms of accessibility. On that basis it could be
argued that a reality that was more accessible, perhaps, was more
of a "real" reality than something that wasn't. I would suggest the
differences in that context are not in terms of realness of
reality, but in terms of the meaningfulness or the convenience that
the event, phenomena or thing, presents to the individual in
question. There is, of course, the other aspect where it could be
argued that a thing, such as the Empire State Building, for
example, is a reality and that such a reality exists independent of
anyone focusing upon it.

But then this comes back to the age-old question of the tree
falling in the forest.

In the terms and the context in which my response was given, the
concept of a person's reality is an all-encompassing notion that
includes all minor categories and/or circumstances that an
individual is focusing upon at any given moment. In other words,
whatever that person happens to be focusing their attention upon
becomes their reality. Individual reality, therefore, is a unique
product of a person's perception that is highly dynamic and
intrinsically focus dependent.

In closing you ask, "... how do we account for 'the implications of
a
living reality' that is not shared by those around us?" On the
basis of my explanation above, an individual's reality is a unique
and dynamic product of their perception and not something that can
be shared in any event.

Your final explanations present me with a clue as to context and I
feel you are talking in terms of there being a physical world, i.e.
a physical reality, on the one hand, and a non-physical world, or
non-physical reality, on the other. The knowledge of these two
entities or "realities" some you can share with some people and
some you feel you cannot share. But in this I feel we are speaking
at cross-purposes. Again, I am specifically speaking in terms of
individual reality, i.e. that part of a person's make up that is
created by their perception at any given moment.

Yours,\
Frank
